DOCSP-30538: text search (#90)
mongodb/docs-rust: source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/text-search.txt

in the following code:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/text.rs
   :language: rust
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin-idx
   :end-before: end-idx

.. _rust-text-search:

Text Search
-----------

A text search retrieves documents that contain a **term** or a
**phrase** in value of the indexed field. A term is a sequence of
characters that excludes whitespace characters. A phrase is a sequence
of terms with any number of whitespace characters.

To perform a text search, include the ``$text`` evaluation query operator,
followed by the ``$search`` field in your query filter. The ``$text`` operator
specifies that you are performing a text search on the text-indexed
fields. The ``$search`` field specifies the text to search in the text-indexed fields.

Query filters for text searches use the following format:

.. code-block:: rust

   let filter = doc! { "$text": { "$search": "<search term or phrase>" } };

.. _rust-text-term:

Search for a Term
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To search for a term, specify the term as a string in your query filter.
To search for multiple terms, separate the terms with spaces.

.. note::

>    When searching for multiple terms, the ``find()`` method returns
>    documents with at least one of the terms in text-indexed fields.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think this is a bit unclear
```suggestion
   When searching for multiple terms, the ``find()`` method returns any
   documents that have at least one of the terms in their text-indexed fields.
```

Author: also added an example

.. code-block:: rust

   let filter = doc! { "$text": { "$search": "<term> -<excluded term>" } };

.. important::

   You must search for at least one term or phrase to exclude
   other terms from your search. If you only exclude terms, the
   search doesn't return any documents.

Example
```````

The following example performs a search for documents in which the
``description`` field contains the term ``"vegan"``, but does not
contain the term ``"tofu"``:

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/text.rs
      :start-after: begin-exclude-term
      :end-before: end-exclude-term
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      Dish { name: "Kale Tabbouleh", description: "A bright, herb-based salad. A perfect starter for vegetarians and vegans." }

Sort by Relevance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A text search assigns a numerical text score to indicate how closely
each result matches the string in your query filter. To reveal the text
score in your output, use a projection to retrieve the ``textScore``
field from the metadata. You can sort the text score in descending order

> by specifying a sort on the ``textScore`` metadata field.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I think it would be helpful here to point out that a higher score = higher relevance, to explain why you are sorting the score in descending order.

Example
```````

This example performs the following actions:

- Performs a search for documents in which the ``description`` field contains the term ``"vegetarian"``
- Sorts the results in descending order on text score
- Includes only the ``name`` and ``score`` fields in the output

.. io-code-block::
   :copyable: true

   .. input:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/crud/text.rs
      :start-after: begin-sort-relevance
      :end-before: end-sort-relevance
      :language: rust
      :dedent:

   .. output::
      :language: none
      :visible: false

      Document({"name": String("Green Curry"), "score": Double(0.9166666666666667)})
      Document({"name": String("Kale Tabbouleh"), "score": Double(0.5625)})
      Document({"name": String("Shepherd’s Pie"), "score": Double(0.5555555555555556)})

.. _rust-search-text-aggregation:

Aggregation
-----------

You can include the ``$text`` evaluation query operator in a
:manual:`$match </reference/operator/aggregation/match/>` aggregation
stage to perform a text search in an aggregation pipeline.

The following sections demonstrate how to perform text searches by using

> aggregation pipelines instead of by using the ``find()`` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aggregation pipelines instead of the ``find()`` method.
```
